>> ON THIS EDITION FOR SUNDAY,
SEPTEMBER 22nd
WITH A GOVERNMENT SHUTDOWN
LOOMING, STILL NO PROGRESS I
BUDGET TALKS
THE LATEST ON THE TERRORIS
ATTACK IN KENYA.
TAKING STEPS TO PROVID
AFFORDABLE HOUSING IN CANADA
>> WE'RE STANDING IN EVERY ROOM,
MY KITCHEN, MY DINING ROOM AND
MY LIVING ROOM AND MY BEDROO
AND MY BATHROOM IS JUST AROUND
THE CORNER
>> WHY THE CONVICTION OF A TOP
POLITICIAN IN CHINA MATTERS.
NEXT ON "PBS NEWSHOUR WEEKEND.
FROM THE TISH STUDIOS, THIS IS
"PBS NEWSHOUR WEEKEND.
>> THE FEDERAL GOVERNMENT WILL
SHUT DOWN 8 DAYS FROM NOW UNLESS
CONGRESS PASSES A NEW BUDGET
TODAY NEITHER PARTY WAS GIVING
AN INCH, INSTEAD LEAVING
DEMOCRATS AND REPUBLICANS TO USE
THE SUNDAY MORNING TALK SHOWS TO
ATTACK ONE ANOTHER
NANCY PELOSI RIDICULED CONGRES
FRIDAY FOR FUNDING THE
AFFORDABLE CARE ACT.
>> I CALLED THEM LEGISLATIVE
ARSONISTS.
THEY'RE THERE TO BURN DOWN ALL
THAT IT IS THAT MAKE OUR COUNTRY
GREAT AND THE ANTI-GOVERNMEN
IDEALOLOGY THAT IS MAKING A MESS
OF WHAT GOES ON IN GOVERNMEN
NOW.
>> TED CRUZ SAID THE
PRESIDENT AND GOVERNMENT SHOUL
BE RESPONSIBLE, NOT THE GOP.
HE CALLED ON REPUBLICANS TO LINE
UP IN SUPPORT OF THE HOUSE BIL
TO ELIMINATE THE PRESIDENT'S
FUNDING FOR THE HEALTH CAR
PLAN
IF THEY DO, HE PROPOSED
DIFFERENT WAY TO KEEP TH
GOVERNMENT RUNNING
>> I THINK THE HOUSE SHOULD HOLD
ITS GROUND AND BEGIN PASSING
SMALLER RESOLUTIONS, ONE
DEPARTMENT AT A TIME
IT SHOULD START WITH FOCUSED O
THE MILITARY, FUND THE MILITARY,
SEND IT OVER AND LET'S SEE I
HARRY REID IS WILLING TO SHU
DOWN THE MILITARY BECAUSE HE
WANTS TO FORCE OBAMA CARE ON THE
AMERICAN PEOPLE.
>> WALK US THROUGH WHAT COME
NEXT WE'RE JOINED BY JEREM
PETERS, A CONGRESSIONAL REPORTER
FOR THE NY TIMES
WHAT HAPPENS TOMORROW?
>> TOMORROW IS GOING TO BE LIK
A LOT OF THE OTHER DAYS THIS
WEEK
THERE ARE GOING TO BE A NUMBER
OF PROCEDURAL STEPS THAT THE
SENATE HAS TO GO THROUGH
IT'S GOING TO BE A PRETTY DULL
WEEK IN TERMS OF VOTING.
THE FIRST MAJOR VOTES THAT YOU
ARE LIKELY TO SEE HAPPEN ARE
GOING TO BE A WEEK FROM TODAY,
NEXT SUNDAY WHEN THE SENAT
VOTES ON A VERSION OF THE BUDGET
BILL THAT THE HOUSE PASSED
FRIDAY
WHAT REID IS EXPECTED TO
DO IS STIPULATE OUT FROM THA
BILL THAT SAYS THE GOVERNMEN
WILL NOT FUND OBAMA CARE
WHAT THE SENATE BILL WIL
ACTUALLY HAVE IS FUNDING FOR
OBAMA CARE
THEN THE HOUSE VOTES ON THAT
NEXT WEEK -- I'M SORRY
THE SENATE VOTES ON THAT NEX
WEEK AND IT GOES BACK TO THE
HOUSE.
>> WHAT ARE THE CHANCES OF A
ACTUAL SHUTDOWN HERE
>> I'VE LEARNED TO STO
PROGNOSTICATING WHAT CONGRES
DOES
IF THERE IS ONE THING HAVE I
HAVE LEARNED THAT THE 535 ME
AND WOMEN ARE UNINCREDIBLELY
UNPREDICTABLE AND DEFY
PREDICTIONS FROM PEOPLE MUCH
MUCH WISER THAN I AM
IT'S KIND OF HARD TO SEE A WAY
THAT THERE IS COMPROMISE
BOTH SIDES ARE SO DUG IN AND
YOU'RE IN THIS UNUSUAL SCENARI
WHERE REPUBLICANS ARE --
CONSERVATIVE REPUBLICANS ARE
ARGUING WITH ONE ANOTHER ABOUT
THE FEES FAEBLT OF PASSING A
BUDGET
TOM COBURN IS SAYING WE DON'
HAVE THE VOTES TO SAY THIS
REPUBLICANS IN THE HOUSE ARE
SAYING, NO, THAT'S NOT GOO
ENOUGH
IT'S HARD TO SEE A WAY FORWARD
WHEN BOTH SIDES ARE SCREAMING AT
EACH OTHER, NO
>> WHERE DOES THIS PUT THE
LEADER OF THE HOUSE, JOH
BOEHNER.
>> HE'S GOING TO HAVE TO DECID
WHETHER OR NOT TO PUT ON THE
FLOOR A VERSION OF THE BUDGE
THAT INCLUDES FUNDING FOR OBAM
CARE
THAT'S WHAT THE SENATE WILL SEND
HIM.
BUT A BILL LIKE THAT OBVIOUSLY
DOES NOT HAVE THE SUPPORT OF HIS
REPUBLICAN CONFERENCE.
THE SPEAKER HAS PUT HIMSELF IN
TRICKY SITUATIONS LIKE THI
BEFORE WHERE HE'S ENRAGED TH
RIGHT BY PUTTING A BILL ON THE
FLOOR THAT DOESN'T HAVE THEI
SUPPORT THAT ULTIMATELY PASSES
BECAUSE IT ENDS UP PASSING WIT
DEMOCRATIC SUPPORT
EVERY TIME HE DOES THAT THER
ARE CALLS FOR HIS OUSTER FRO
THE RIGHT.
WHAT JOHN BOEHNER DOES I THINK
WILL DETERMINE HOW THI
SITUATION IS RESOLVED.
>> IS THERE A WAY OUT OF IT?
>> WELL, YOU KNOW, GOVERNMEN
ALWAYS SEEMS TO KEEP RUNNING AND
THERE IS ALWAYS A LIGHT AT THE
END OF THE TUNNEL IN SITUATION
LIKE THESE
I THINK WHAT HAPPENS IS IT'S A
VERY BUMPY RIDE BUT TH
GOVERNMENT WILL BE FUNDED.
HOW THAT LOOKS AT THE END OF
THIS WEEK, TWO WEEK FIGHT WE
HAVE AHEAD OF US, WHO KNOWS.
>> A QUESTION I HAVE, AS YOU
TALK TO ALL THESE DIFFEREN
MEMBERS, IS THERE A SENSE OF
CONTROVERSY FATIGUE OR DO THEY
RELISH THIS BRINKSMANSHIP?
>> ONE OF THE MOST INTERESTING
THINGS THAT'S HAPPENED HERE IS
THAT THE TEA PARTY ITSELF HA
STARTED TO SPLIT
THIS IS A GROUP OF LEGISLATURE
WHO WERE ELECTED TO CONGRESS I
2010 BASICALLY SAYING WE'RE NO
GOING TO COMPROMISE ON ANYTHIN
AND THAT HELPED EXACERBATE THI
GOVERNING BY CRISES DEADLINE
THAT WE'VE BEEN SEEING
I THINK YOU RAISE A VERY GOO
QUESTION
YOU HAVE A LOT OF REPUBLICAN
SAYING AS MUCH AS WE HATE BOEM
CARE REPUBLICANS DO NOT CONTRO
CONGRESS AND IF THEY DID THE
WOULD HAVE TO OVERRIDE A
PRESIDENT'S VETO AND THAT'S NO
GOING TO HAPPEN.
>> THANK YOU
>> LATE THIS AFTERNOON PRESIDENT
OBAMA PAID TRIB PUT TO THE 1
PEOPLE GUNNED DOWN IN THE NAVY
YARD LAST MONDAY AND SPOKE ABOUT
THE NEED TO CURB GUN VIOLENCE.
>> SOMETIMES I FEEL THERE IS A
CREEPING RESIGNATION THAT THES
TRAGEDIES ARE JUST SOMEHOW THE
WAY IT IS, THAT THIS IS SOMEHO
THE NEW NORMAL
WE CAN'T ACCEPT THIS
AMERICANS BOUND IN GRIEF AND
LOVE, WE MUST INSIST HERE TODA
THERE IS NOTHING NORMAL ABOU
INNOCENT MEN AND WOMEN BEING
GUNNED DOWN WHERE THEY WORK.
>> AND TO KENYA WHER
AUTHORITIES NOW SAY AT LEAST 6
PEOPLE HAVE BEEN KILLED AND AT
LEAST 175 PEOPLE WOUNDED IN THAT
TERROR ATTACK THAT BEGAN
YESTERDAY IN A SHOPPING MALL I
NAIROBI.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM HAS THE LATEST.
>> Reporter: KENYAN SECURITY
FORCES TOOK UP POSITIONS TODAY
AROUND THE FIVE STORY WEST GAT
SHOPPING MALL AS HELICOPTERS
CIRCLED OVERHEAD
THIS EVENING KENYAN AUTHORITIE
ANNOUNCED THAT AN ASSAULT BEGA
AGAINST THE ISLAMIST MILITANTS
WHO HAD BEEN HOLDING HOSTAGE
INSIDE
MOST OF THOSE 30 HOSTAGES HA
BEEN RESCUED AND SECURITY FORCES
WERE NOW IN CONTROL OF MOST OF
THE BUILDING
A SPOKESMAN FOR THE MILITANT
SAID EARLIER THEY WOULD NO
SURRENDER TO AND VOWED THAT TH
HOSTAGES WOULD, QUOTE, MEE
THEIR FACE
THE PRESIDENT WHO LOST HIS
NEPHEW ADDRESSED THE NATIO
EARLIER.
>> THERE ARE ARMED TERRORIST
INSIDE THE BUILDING AS WELL AS
MANY UNARMED, BADLY SHAKEN
INNOCENT CIVILIANS
WE HAVE REPORTS OF WOMEN AS WELL
AS MALE ATTACKERS.
OUR MULTI-AGENCY RESPONSE UNIT
HAS HAD TO DELICATELY BALANC
THE PRESSURE TO CONTAIN TH
CRIMINALS WITH A NEED TO KEE
OUR PEOPLE STILL HELD IN THE
BUILDING SAFE.
>> THERE WERE UNCONFIRME
REPORTS THAT KENYAN AUTHORITIE
WERE WORKING CLOSELY WIT
ISRAELI TERROR EXPERTS I
NAIROBI TO OUST THE AL SHABA
MILITANTS.
THEY USED GUNS AND GRENADES TO
STORM THE MALL YESTERDAY
PETER GREENBERG IS IN NAIROB
AND IS FAMILIAR WITH THE MALL.
HE SAID THE MALL PROVIDE
CERTAIN ADVANTAGES TO TH
MILITANTS.
>> IT'S A VERY BIG BUILDING AN
THE REAL PROBLEM IS IF YOU CUT
OFF WATER IT DOESN'T MATTER.
IT'S A HUGE GROCERY STORE THERE.
IT'S LIKELY TO THE TERRORIST
RESUPPLIED THEMSELVES.
YOU HAVE A LOT OF DEPARTMENT
STORES THAT SELL CLOTHING.
IT'S LIKELY THAT THE TERRORIST
COULD ACTUALLY RECLOTH
THEMSELVES IN CIVILIAN GEAR TO
MAKE IT MORE DIFFICULT T
DISTINGUISH THEMSELVES BETWEEN
THE TERRORISTS AND THE HOSTAGES.
IS ALSO HAVE THE CHURCHES HERE
TODAY COMPLETELY JAMMED.
EVERYBODY PRAYING.
GREAT UNITY, SOLIDARITY, PEOPL
ARE COMING TOGETHER AS A
COMMUNITY MUCH LIKE WHAT
HAPPENED IN 9/11 OF THE UNITED
STATES
>> WHEN THE SIEGE BEGA
YESTERDAY THE GUNMAN REPORTEDL
TOLD SHOPPERS THAT MUSLIMS WER
SAFE AND ALLOWED TO LEAVE WHIL
NONMUSLIMS WERE TARGETED
>> CHRISTIANS CAME UNDER ATTAC
TODAY WHEN TWO SUICIDE BOMBERS
DETONATED THEIR EXPLOSIVES
OUTSIDE A CHURCH
ONE SURVIVOR SAID THERE WAS
BLAST AND HELL FOR ALL OF US
I FOUND NOTHING BUT SMOKE,
BLOOD, DUST AND SCREAMIN
PEOPLE, SEVERED BODY PARTS AND
BLOOD ALL AROUND
A MEMBER OF THE PAKISTAN
TALIBAN SAID ALL NONMUSLIMS AR
OUR TARGET AND WILL REMAIN A
LONG AS AMERICA FAILS TO STO
DRONE ATTACKS IN OUR COUNTRY
>>> THIS FROM EUROPE TONIGHT
THE CHANCELLOR OF GERMAN
RE-ELECTED
HE MAY NEED TO FORM A COALITIO
GOVERNMENT WITH THE COALITIO
DEMOCRATS BECAUSE HER PARTNER IN
THE LAST PARLIAMENT DID NOT GE
ENOUGH VOTES TO WIN ANY SEATS IN
THE NEW PARLIAMENT
>>> NOW TO OUR SIGNATURE
SEGMENT, IN DEPTH REPORTS FROM
AROUND THE NATION AND THE WORLD.
THE PHRASE AMERICA IS CHANGING
DEMOGRAPHICS MIGHT BRING TO MIND
THE GROWING NUMBER OF HISPANIC
IN THE UNITED STATES AND HOW
THAT AFFECTS THE PROSPECTS O
BOTH POLITICAL PARTIES
ANOTHER SHIFT IS TAKING PLAC
ACROSS AMERICA THAT GETS
VIRTUALLY NO ATTENTION, WE'R
TALKING ABOUT A VERY LARGE
INCREASE IN THE NUMBER OF PEOPLE
WHO LIVE BY THEMSELVES
NOW RECOGNIZING THE ECONOMIC
RAMIFICATIONS, CITIES IN THI
COUNTRY AND CANADA ARE ADAPTING.
>> IT'S ABOUT 260 SQUARE FEET.
EVERYTHING IS REALLY COMPACT
IT'S MULTI-FUNCTIONAL.
>> Reporter: SHAWN GROF IS A
26-YEAR-OLD EMPLOYEE AT WHOL
FOODS WHO LIVES IN A BUILDIN
THAT CONSISTS SOLELY OF WHAT ARE
KNOWN AS MICRO APARTMENTS.
>> WE'RE STANDING IN EVERY ROOM.
MY KITCHEN, MY DINING ROOM, MY
LIVING ROOM, MY BEDROOM.
MY BATHROOM IS JUST AROUND THE
CORNER
THE TABLE COMES UP
>> Reporter: HIS DINING ROOM
TABLE IS ALSO HIS BED.
>> THE WHILE THING FOLDS DOWN.
CLASSIC MURPHY BED
>> Reporter: FOR ABOUT $950
MONTH, HE LEARNING TO MAKE DUE
WITH HIS 260 SQUARE FOOT SPACE
>> VOILA
IF I HAVE COMPANY AND I NEED
ANOTHER CHAIR I CAN USE MY
COFFEE TABLE
THEY CAN ENJOY
THIS IS A SOLUTION FOR PEOPL
LIKE MYSELF IN THE STAGE OF MY
LIFE WHO DON'T HAVE THAT MAN
THINGS AND I DON'T FEEL LIKE I
NEED THAT MUCH SPACE
I'M NOT REALLY HOME THAT OFTEN
YOU ASK YOURSELF WHAT YOU REALLY
NEED AND IF YOU ARE HONEST A LOT
OF THINGS BECOME UNNECESSARY
>> Reporter: HE HAPPENS TO LIV
IN VANCOUVER, CANADA, ONE OF THE
FIRST NORTH AMERICAN CITIES TO
EMBRACE THE TINY LIVING CONCEPT.
BUT THE IDEA IS CATCHING ON IN
SEATTLE, SAN FRANCISCO, NE
YORK, BOSTON, WASHINGTON D.C.,
PROVIDENCE AND CLEVELAND
THEY HAVE ALL BEEN PURSUIN
PROJECTS TO DEVELOP THIS NEW
MODEL.
IT'S AN IDEA THAT MAY BE NEW T
NORTH AMERICA BUT COUNTRIES LIKE
JAPAN HAVE LOOKED TO MICRO
APARTMENTS AS A SOLUTION TO HIGH
POPULATION
>> THE HOUSING REALLY DOES
CORRESPOND WITH THIS POPULATIO
NEED
>> Reporter: SARAH WATSON IS THE
DEPUTY DIRECTOR OF A NONPROFIT
RESEARCH GROUP IN NEW YORK, TH
CITIZENS HOUSING AND PLANNIN
COUNSEL.
FOR THE LAST FIVE YEARS TH
ORGANIZATION HAS BEEN STUDYING
NEW CONCEPTS IN HOUSING.
WATSON SAYS THE NUMBER OF PEOPLE
LIVING BY THEMSELVES IN TH
UNITED STATES HAS INCREASE
DRAMATICALLY
IN THE 40s AND 50s, IT WAS LES
THAN TEN PERCENT
TODAY THAT POPULATION IS CLOSE
TO 30 PERCENT.
PEOPLE ARE GETTING MARRIED
LATER.
GETTING DIVORCED AT HIGHER RATES
THAN THEY ONCE DID AND ARE
LIVING LONGER.
WATSON SAYS THE SUPPLY O
HOUSING FOR SINGLE PEOPLE HA
BEEN KEPT UP WITH THIS CHANGIN
DEMOGRAPHIC.
>> IF THE POPULATION CHANGES BUT
THERE IS NOT HOUSING SUPPLY TO
FOLLOW, WHAT HAPPENS IS PEOPLE
START GOING UNDERGROUND AN
LIVING INFORMALLY.
THAT'S WHY YOU SEE THIS HUGE
GROWTH IN CRAIG'S LIST MARKET,
PEOPLE TRYING TO MAKE ROOM I
HOUSING THAT'S NOT DESIGNED FO
IT
>> Reporter: AND THE PROBLEM I
ONLY GOING TO GET WORSE.
FOR INSTANCE, NEW YORK'S
POPULATION IS EXPECTED TO RISE
ABOUT APPROXIMATELY 600,00
PEOPLE BY THE YEAR 2030.
THAT'S ABOUT AN 8 PERCEN
INCREASE
>> WE CAN'T JUST KEEP BUILDING
TALLER BUILDINGS
THERE HAS TO BE SOME NEW WAY T
ACCOMMODATE THESE PEOPLE WITHI
IT
THIS WHOLE SPACE IS 325 SQUARE
FEET
>> Reporter: HER ORGANIZATIO
LOBBIED TO CONVINCE MAYO
MICHAEL BLOOMBERG'
ADMINISTRATION TO CONSIDER NEW
TYPES OF HOUSING IN NEW YORK
INCLUDING MICRO APARTMENTS LIK
THIS ONE ON DISPLAY AT A RECEN
EXHIBIT AT THE MUSEUM OF THE
CITY OF NEW YORK
>> THE SHELF STAYS HORIZONTAL.
YOU DON'T EVEN HAVE TO CLEAR
YOUR BOOKS
>> THIS IS FOR BIG CITIES,
PARTICULARLY CITIES THAT ATTRACT
YOUNG PEOPLE ARE GOING TO BE A
BIG PROBLEM COMING DOWN TH
ROAD
THIS IS THE FIRST STEP THA
WE'RE TAKING TO TRY TO FIND
SOLUTION
>> Reporter: IN A CITY WHERE
SPACE IS AT A PREMIUM, THE MAYOR
LAUNCHED A PILOT PROJECT O
MANHATTAN'S EAST SIDE.
EACH OF THE 55 PREFAB UNITS WILL
BE HOUSED IN A SINGLE BUILDING
EACH WILL BE LESS THAN 400
SQUARE FEET.
IN ORDER TO DO THAT, MAYOR
BLOOMBERG SAID HE WOULD WAIV
ZONING REGULATIONS PUT IN PLAC
IN THE 1980s TO PROTECT AGAINS
OVERCROWDING
CONSTRUCTION IS SET TO BEGIN
THIS DECEMBER OR JANUARY
>> IT'S BASICALLY AN EXPERIMENT?
>> RIGHT
IT'S AN EXPERIMENT AND USING I
TO PROPERLY TEST WHAT HAPPENS IF
YOU JUST RELIEVE A FEW ELEMENTS,
A FEW CONTROLS, REALLY TO SE
WHAT THE OPTIONS COULD BE.
>> Reporter: NEW YORK'S MICR
UNIT BUILDING WILL REQUIRE THA
40 PERCENT OF THE UNITS AR
RENTED AT AN AFFORDABLE RATE
THIS BEING NEW YORK, THE WOR
AFFORDABLE IS RELATIVE
THE RENT FOR THOSE TIN
SUBSIDIZED APARTMENTS WILL B
BETWEEN $940 AND $1800 A MONTH
THAT'S ACTUALLY QUITE LOW FO
THE NEIGHBORHOOD
>> THIS IS A SELLING POINT
>> Reporter: THIS MAN IS A LAW
PROFESSOR IN BOSTON WHO STUDIE
AFFORDABLE HOUSING AND LAND US
POLICY
>> IT'S GOOD TO RETAIN YOUNG
PROFESSIONALS, RECENT COLLEG
MANY GRADUATES WHO MIGHT B
PRICED OUT OF THE CITY
BOSTON FOR INSTANCE IS PUSHING
THAT FRONT, THAT THEY WANT T
RETAIN THEIR RECENT GRADUATE
WHO OTHERWISE CAN'T AFFORD T
LIVE THERE
THOSE GRADUATES ARE GOING TO B
IMPORTANT FOR THE CITY'S BROADER
ECONOMY TO GROW.
>> Reporter: BUT THERE HAS BEE
BACKLASH
IN SEATTLE COMMUNITY GROUPS HAVE
SAID THEY MAKE NEIGHBORHOODS
LESS STABLE AS YOUNG PEOPLE COME
AND GO
IN VANCOUVER CRITICS WORRY THA
THEY WILL REPLACE HOUSING FO
THE POOR
FOR EXAMPLE, THE APARTMENT
BUILDING WHERE SHAWN GROF LIVE
USED TO BE A SINGLE ROOM
OCCUPANCY BUILDING
LOCALS COMPLAINED RESIDENTS WERE
FORCED TO STREETS.
>> THESE ARE GEARED FOR HIGH END
PEOPLE
IT'S NOT ADDRESSING THE NEEDS OF
LOWER MIDDLE INCOME WORKERS WH
ALSO NEED THE HOUSING.
>> A LOT OF THESE PILOTS THA
ARE HAPPENING ARE DEFINITELY O
THE HIGHER END AND BECAUSE THE
ARE HAPPENING IN HIGH VALU
AREAS.
IF YOU THINK THROUGH THE DESIG
CONCEPT OF THESE SMALL SPACE
AND SITUATE THEM IN OTHE
LOCATIONS YOU'RE REALLY CHANGING
THE PRICE POINT AND YOU CA
TARGET DIFFERENT POPULATIONS
>> Reporter: WATSON BELIEVES
MICRO UNITS MAKE SENSE FOR THE
WAY MANY PEOPLE LIVE TODAY
>> THERE IS A REASON WHY THIS IS
CATCHING ON IN THE COUNTRY
BECAUSE YOU CAN LIVE QUITE
COMFORTABLY NOW WITH YOUR MUSI
COLLECTION AND YOUR BOOKS ON A
SHELF.
IT'S TRANSFORMED THE NEED FO
SPACE.
COUPLE THAT WITH NEW
TRANSFORMABLE FURNITURE AND YO
CAN MAXIMIZE A SMALL SPACE IN
POSITIVE WAY
>> JUST HOW SMALL IS SMALL
TAKE A TOUR OF A MICRO
APARTMENT.
VISIT NEWS HOUR.PBS.ORG.
>> A FORMER MEMBER OF THE
POLITBORO WAS HANDCUFFED AND
TAKEN AWAY AFTER BEING CONVICTED
OF TAKING $3 MILLION IN BRIBES
HE USED THE MONEY TO PAY FOR A
LAVISH LIFE-STYLE.
WE'RE JOINED BY THE DIRECTOR FOR
U.S. CHINA RELATIONS
FIRST QUESTION, WHY WAS THIS
TRIAL SO SIGNIFICANT IN CHINA?
>> WELL, IT WAS NOT ONLY A
ISOLATED CASE OF ONE OFFICIA
WHO WAS CORRUPT BUT A HIGH
OFFICIAL
SO THIS SORT OF REACHED BACK
INTO THE DEEP RECESSES BEHIN
THE VEIL OF HIGH PARTY POLITICS.
THIS WAS A THREAT TO OTHER
LEADERS BECAUSE HE SAW THE POWER
BASE THAT WAS OUTSIDE OF THE
CONSENSUAL KIND OF BACK ROOM
LEADERSHIP AGREEMENTS THAT
USUALLY DECIDE WHO RISES
HE SOUGHT TO RALLY A POPULAR
FOLLOWING.
>> THIS WAS VERY THREATENING T
OTHERS IN THE TOP LEADERSHIP
WAS THIS AN EMBARRASSMENT TO
CHINA OVERALL WHEN IT COMES TO
THE PRIVATE LIVES OF SOME OF OUR
MOST POWERFUL POLITICIANS?
>> YES, IT WAS EMBARRASSING.
NOT ONLY IS HE A HIGH POLITICIAN
WITH A HIGH VISIBILITY SIGN AT
OXFORD BUT HIS FATHER WAS A HIGH
VISIBILITY POLITICIAN AND HE
TOO, SPENT 11 YEARS IN PRISON,
WAS REHABILITATED AND IT LOOKS
LIKE HE WILL GO TO THE SAM
PRISON THAT HIS FATHER WENT TO
WHICH IS SORT OF PARADOX
>> CAN WE EXPECT THIS LIFE
SENTENCE TO BE CARRIED OUT O
PERHAPS HE'LL BE PARDONED A FE
YEARS FROM NOW IN ANOTHE
CHAPTER OF HIS RECOVERY?
>> IT'S VERY HARD TO SAY I
CHINA.
IF THINGS REMAIN AS THEY ARE
POLITICALLY SPEAKING WITH HI
CHINESE COMMUNIST PARTY IN
CONTROL, I THINK HE'S NOT GOIN
TO HAVE MUCH OF
REHABILITATION
BUT THE LORD WORKS IN MYSTERIOUS
WAYS AND CHINA HAS FREQUENTL
UNDERGONE MAJOR TECH TONIC
CHANGES.
IT'S VERY HARD TO KNOW
HE'S A VERY ABLE, VERY SMART MAN
WHO HAS A SUBSTANTIAL FOLLOWIN
DESPITE HIS INDISCRETIONS.
>> SHOULD THE U.S. BE PAYING
ATTENTION TO THIS?
>> I THINK THE U.S. KNOWS A LO
ABOUT THIS CASE BECAUSE HI
POLICE CHIEF WHERE HE WAS PART
SECRETARY DEFECTED FOR A DAY AND
A HALF TO THE CONSUL GENERAL AND
SPILLED THE BEANS.
>> THE U.S. CONSULATE?
>> YES
I THINK THE U.S. HAS DON
VERY
LITTLE ABOUT IT.
THEY KNOW A LOT.
THEY HAVE PAID A LOT O
ATTENTION BUT CHOSEN JUST TO B
SILENT
>> WHAT ARE THE KIND OF LONGER
TERM CONSEQUENCES?
IT SEEMS THAT SOME OF THES
COURT TRANSCRIPTS WERE MAD
PUBLIC
ARE THEY SAYING HERE ARE OUR
OPPORTUNITIES TO BE TRANSPARENT?
>> I THINK THEY FELT THEY HAD TO
HAVE A CERTAIN TRANSPARENCY IN
THIS TRIAL TO CONVINCE HIS
SUPPORTERS THAT HE WASN'
RAILROADED
BUT THEY DIDN'T WANT TO DESMUR
MUCH THE PARTY WITH THE LURI
DETAILS.
>> THANKS SO MUCH.
>> FINALLY TONIGHT A NOVEL
APPROACH TO SAVE A HUGE BU
VULNERABLE WILD ANIMAL
>> IN A GAME RESERVE NORTH OF JO
HAN ES BERG, RANGERS MAD
ANOTHER GRIM DISCOVERY THI
WEEK
>> SHE WAS STILL ALIVE WHEN SH
STARTED HACKING OFF HER HORN
IT WAS A HORRIFIC DEATH.
>> A 23-YEAR-OLD PREGNANT RHIN
SHOT AND HACKED TO DEATH FOR HER
HORNS.
>> IF THE CHILDREN IN TH
COUNTRY GOT TO SEE THIS, THEY'RE
GOING TO START ASKING THEI
APPARENT ABOUT WHY YOU'RE USIN
IT
>> THAT'S THE QUESTION THESE
VIETNAMESE DELEGATIONS HAVE BEEN
ASKED TO ANSWER THIS WEEK.
THEY HOPE TO SHOCK THEM INTO
ACTION
EACH MEMBER OF THE GROUP I
HOPED TO USE IT TO SPREAD TH
MESSAGE, A POLITICIAN, A
JOURNALIST AND VIETNAMS MOST
FAMOUS COMEDIAN WHO HAS TOLD HIS
500,000 FACEBOOK FOLLOWERS WHA
HE THINKS.
TO A POACHING GANG, THIS HOR
COULD BE WORTH A QUARTER OF
MILLION POUNDS
IN THE TOWNSHIPS AND VILLAGE
THERE IS NO SHORTAGE OF PEOPLE
PREPARED TO DO THE KILLING
THE RHINO WON'T MATE WITHOUT A
WEAPON TO PROTECT ITS YOUNG.
GAME PARKS CAN'T REMOVE TH
ANIMAL'S HORNS BUT CAN TRY T
CUT THEIR VALUES
A GROWING NUMBER OF RESERVES ARE
INJECTING THE HORNS WITH POISON.
IT DOESN'T HARM THE ANIMALS BU
WILL GIVE THE CONSUMER A
EXPERIENCE THEY WON'T FORGET AND
IT COULD HELP TO KILL DEMAND
WITH THE VERY SURVIVAL OF THIS
SPECIES UNDER THREAT THERE IS
GROWING CONSENSUS HERE, THAT
DESPERATE TIMES CALL FOR
DESPERATE MEASURES
>> ON THE NEWS HOUR TOMORROW O
AIR AND ONLINE WORLD LEADERS
CONVERGE ON NEW YORK
MARGARET WARNER REPORTS.
JUDY WOODRUFF SITS DOWN WITH
FORMER PRESIDENT CLINTON ABOUT
IRAN, SYRIA, THE CLINTON GLOBA
INITIATIVE AND MORE.
THAT'S IT FOR THIS EDITION O
NEWS HOUR WEEKEND.
THANKS FOR WATCHING.